---
title: Veeam Backup Server
parent: Veeam Components Designs
grand_parent: Design
nav_order: 10
---

# Veeam Backup Server

In this section, we will describe how to design and size the Veeam backup server.

Sizing with Veeam is cumulative in respect to configurations, if you want to create an all-in-one appliance (Appliance Model) add all the resource requirements together (CPU + Memory) to understand what in total you will need, combining roles such as the proxy and repository merits the same considerations

## Compute requirements

Recommended Veeam backup server configuration is **1 CPU core (physical or virtual) and 4 GB RAM per 10 concurrently running jobs**. Concurrent jobs include any running backup or replication jobs as well as any job with a continuous schedule such as backup copy jobs and tape jobs.

The minimum recommendation is 2 CPU cores and 8 GB RAM.

## Disk space

### Installation folder

Plan for 40 GB. If installing in a virtual machine, thin disks may be used. By default the installer will choose the drive with most available free space for the built in backup repository.

### Log files

Log file growth will depend on the number and frequency of jobs and the number of instances being protected. Consider that the logging level may also affect the log size, if you need to change the logging level or log file location refer to this Veeam [Knowledge Base article](https://www.veeam.com/kb1825).

It is recommended to not configure the logging level below 4, as it may complicate troubleshooting. Logging level 6 is very verbose, and should only be configured for short periods of time when requested by Veeam Support.

Plan for 3 GB log files generated per 100 protected instances, with a 24 hour RPO. For environments with more than 500 protected instances it is recommended to change the default location to a different fast access disk. Many concurrently running jobs may produce a lot of write streams to log files, than can slow down operations for the Veeam Backup Service and Backup Manager processes.

### Veeam Backup Catalog folder

This folder is used if guest indexing in backup jobs is enabled.

Plan for 10 GB per 100 VM for guest file system catalog folder (persistent data).

### vPower NFS folder

When booting VMs with Instant VM Recovery or SureBackup, this folder is used by default to store all configuration files and redo logs of the running VM. To offload the changes to a specific production datastore refer to the corresponding page of the Instant VM Recovery wizard.

The vPower NFS server is bound to backup repositories and the folder location is defined per server. To achieve best performance for VMs running off of vPower NFS please configure the fastest possible storage on the backup server or backup repository.

It is recommended to reserve at least 10 GB space for this folder. If you plan to start a significant number of VMs or run VMs over a longer period  increase the space accordingly to fit the produced/estimated amount of changes generated by the running VMs (conservative average change rate can be defined as 100 GB per 1 TB VM per 24 hours - or 10%). Additional disk space is consumed when using Quick Migration.

___

## References

[Backup Server](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/backup_server.html?ver=100)

[System requirements](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/system_requirements.html?ver=100#backup_server)

[Installation settings](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/install_vbr_settings.html?ver=100)

[Veeam Backup Catalog](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/indexing_catalog.html?ver=100)

[vPower NFS Service](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/vpower_nfs_service.html?ver=100)

[Quick Migration](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/quick_migration.html?ver=100)
